DAN: After the Gundalians hijacked Bakugan Interspace
and forced us out, things took a turn for the worse
in the battle for Neathia.
We decided to join Fabia as she returned home so we
could help with the fight.
Once we got there, we were made members of the Castle Knights.
Now Earth and Neathia were united in the struggle
to keep Barodius from stealing the Sacred Orb.
Lucky for us, we have the most powerful Bakugan, Dragonoid
Colossus, on our side.
Now Drago!
Bakugan brawl!
[THEME - CREIGHTON DAN AND DANIEL LEBLANC,
\"THIS IS BAKUGAN\"]
THEME SONG: What are you going to do?
The odds stacked against you.
Backs against the wall.
Got to give it your all.
This is the final stand.
The power's in your hand.
Two worlds collide on the inside.
You've got to fight for what's right before it's gone gone,
gone.
This is Bakugan!.
[music playing]
What?
[laughs]
Look!
It's a firefly.
I didn't know they could survive down here.
Well if a creature of light can live down here,
then does that mean we can live up there, above ground?
Huh?
Don't get your hopes up Ren.
They want us to stay here.
I know they do, but maybe one day it will be possible.
DAN: The Bakugan Battle Brawlers in Dragonoid Colossus.
I have finally chosen a side!
What are you doing, Ren?
What I should have done from the start.
I am fighting alongside my true friends.
Well this is an interesting development.
It appears Ren will be punished after all.
[groaning]
Linehalt?
Drago!
Got ya.
BARODIUS: Foolish boy.
How dare you spit in my face like that?
And to think he was so close to being granted your freedom.
REN: There was a time when I believed
you would do that for me.
But now I know differently.
For years and years, you filled me with false hopes
of living in the sunlight.
But now I realize that as long as I serve you
I will never have my true freedom.
Shall we Dharak?
Hah, why should we dirty our hands?
Let Exokor deal with it.
[roaring]
[growling]
Come on!
[grunt]
Linehalt!
No!
[roaring]
Your master is a traitorous fool.
And now he has sealed both of your fates.
You should have stayed loyal Linehalt.
I did.
Ren and I are loyal to the end.
You'll both have the Brawlers to keep you company
once we defeat Neathia and banish it back to the darkness.
We aren't--
Ever going back.
We'll see about that.
[roaring]
Ability activate!
Ice Crasher!
Battle Gear ability activate!
Boomix Lock!
Pah!
Westwall Shield!
Pathetic.
Evil Blow!
Darkness Glow.
Hah!
Ability activate!
Darkness Blizzard!
Nice one!
He nullified the ability.
Keep it going Linehalt!
[roar]
LINEHALT (VOICEOVER): Ren, you have always been there for me,
even when things looked hopeless.
You never gave up on our dream of living in the light.
Now it's my turn.
I'm not going to let anyone take our freedom from us.
[roar]
Ability activate!
Razen Breaker!
[groaning]
REN (VOICEOVER): Linehalt, even though I was supposed
to be your guardian, the truth is
we've been watching out for each other all of these years.
You saved my life once.
And now, it's time I saved yours.
We were wrong to betray the brawlers the way we did.
Then we will redeem ourselves by defeating Barodius!
[upbeat music]
Here we go Akwimos!
Battle Gear ability activate!
Gigarth Pointer!
Cool is the rule dude!
You're going down fish face.
Ability activate!
Merfolk!
Big deal.
Ability activate!
Loop Defense!
Surf's up kiddies!
That's right!
Huh?
[laughter]
A little water won't stop me.
Ah!
Bummer.
Battle Gear boost!
[roar]
Uh Jake, tell me you've got a plan!
Battle Gear ability activate!
Vicer Orochi!
Rock Hammer Beo-Blaster!
Hah!
This guy is strong.
Hold on buddy!
[groaning]
I've had enough of this.
Take him down now Krakix!
[roaring]
[groaning]
Coredem!
Listen short stuff, why don't you back
off and let the big kids play?
Who are you calling short?
Heh.
You, you little runt.
Ability activate!
Megalo Thereia!
[screaming]
Ah!
Akwimos!
[roaring]
Aranaut!
Crush him Lumagrowl!
You're finished.
I wouldn't count on that.
Open wide you mangy mutt.
[lumagrowl scoffs]
How did I miss, this close?
You'll pay dearly for that.
[aranaut grunts]
Get out of there Aranaut!
Barias Gear Lightning!
[aranaut groans]
Oh no!
It's time we turn up the heat.
Hmm.
Ready Swayther.
Battle Gear boost!
Hah!
[roaring]
Let's win this Hawktor!
You read my mind.
Battle Gear boost!
Hah!
[roaring]
Battle Gear ability activate!
Battle Turbine Frain!
Barbecue chicken anyone?
Huh?
Battle Gear ability activate!
Swayther Gekkou!
I should probably tell you.
We're cat people.
[groaning]
Now that the mutt is out of the way,
let's get back to Strikeflier.
He's gone.
Huh?
What's that?
Did you really think we'd run away from a fight?
Say goodbye.
[screaming]
[laughter]
Who knew this would be so much fun?
Ability activate, High Skewed Waver.
[roaring]
Linehalt!
Oh man, they're getting pummelled!
Stay strong Linehalt.
Ability activate!
Gigarth Ray!
Hah!
I find it very curious that Linehalt hasn't shown
us his forbidden power yet.
We've certainly given him enough opportunity.
Perhaps we need to push a little harder?
Or perhaps, he never possessed the power in the first place.
My father may have been a superstitious old fool,
but he was no coward.
If Linehalt and his kind didn't possess the forbidden power,
then he wouldn't have gone to such great lengths
to keep them away hidden in the darkness.
Huh?
We need to capture Linehalt and give him to Kazarina.
I'm sure her methods will reveal
what's really inside of him.
Thunder Probe!
[roar]
REN: Linehalt!
[groaning]
Ren!
Are you OK?
It's time for us to step in Dan.
I'm with you Drago buddy.
I know Ren went bad there for a little while but--
Say no more.
He's our friend and we need to help him.
Stay out of this!
Huh?
Linehalt?
Please, if you really want to help,
let us finish this ourselves.
But you guys are really banged up and--
Huh?
(WEAKLY) Dan.
Linehalt is right.
P-please.
But Ren.
Fine, I get you pal.
This is your score.
And you need to settle it.
Thanks for understanding.
Let's go.
Bakugan brawl!
Bakugan stand!
We can do this Linehalt!
Hah!
Our future is finally in our hands Linehalt!
We got to watch their backs, Drago buddy.
[tense music]
Oh Sacred Orb, I humbly ask you to protect those
who are fighting to protect us.
Where have those rodents scurried away to?
That's it.
Hold still.
Why don't you just show yourselves, you cowards?
Ability activate!
Exodus Waver.
Hold tight Ren.
Blast them out of the sky Dharak.
Gladly Let's try my new favorite toy.
[roaring]
Ability activate.
[screaming]
Ren, no!
Dude.
(WEAKLY) We're OK.
Yeah, don't worry.
[ground shakes]
It is clear that a Bakugan as powerful
as Linehalt is wasted on a battler like Ren.
Even after all these years, he still hasn't
learned to use the switch code.
What's he talking about?
I thought you had promise Ren.
That's why I gave you so many chances.
Obviously, that was an error in judgment on my part.
There is nothing special about you at all.
No matter.
Your pathetic dream of living in the sunshine is over Ren.
You have nothing but darkness in your future.
LINEHALT: Don't listen to him!
Huh?
Linehalt?
Even as a young boy, you believed it was possible.
You could see what even I was blind to.
Well, if a creature of light can live down here,
then does that mean we can live up there above ground?
Don't get your hopes up Ren.
They want us to stay here.
I know they do.
But maybe one day, it will be possible.
It was your vision that helped us get
through those horrible times.
We can't give up on our dream Ren!
Not now.
Not ever!
What!
That is the forbidden power!
[roaring]
No, Linehalt!
[screaming]
What the- What's happening?
Hold steady!
[screaming]
I've never seen such power.
DRAGO: Whatever this is, it's going to rip the planet in two!
I know!
Linehalt, stop it.
Stop it!
[roaring]
The energy wave is gaining in strength sir.
At this rate, the third shield won't hold much longer.
Commander Elright, something is happening with the Sacred Orb.
And Queen Serena hasn't returned from the shrine.
Come on!
Let's go!
Sacred Orb, what's wrong?
Queen Serena, we have to leave.
[explosion]
Is that what I think it is?
Yes.
The Orb's last defense, Dragonoid Colossus.
[roaring]
Did you see that?
I think so.
[crash]
[screaming]
[groaning]
(WEAKLY) Linehalt
Are you OK Dharak?
Yes.
But that one really hurt.
What was that thing?
Give me a status report Gill.
GILL: Well sire, we've sustained significant damage.
[keening]
Interesting.
[groan]
Are your ears still ringing too?
Yep.
Prepare to transport us.
GILL: Right away, sire.
Dan!
Are you OK?
Dude!
ALL: Whoa!
[gasp]
The Gundalians are retreating.
Linehalt's forbidden power is even greater
than I had imagined.
But what's more impressive is that winged creature that
came in and snuffed it out.
It reminds me of a bedtime story that my father used
to tell me about a guardian spirit
that protected the Sacred Orb.
[keening]
The Sacred Orb must not be violated.
To any who ignore this, suffering will follow.
Those are the words that your father spoke.
BARODIUS (VOICEOVER): Either I've opened Pandora's box
or stumbled onto the greatest treasure ever.
Ren, are you OK?
Never been better.
I finally figured it out.
What are you talking about?
Figured what out?
The truth about my duties as a dark protector.
I'm supposed to keep Linehalt from unleashing
his forbidden power in a destructive manner.
What forbidden power?
It's something I've been cursed with as a dark Bakugan.
It's not your fault Linehalt. It's mine for not understanding
what my duties were.
I promise it won't happen again.
How could we know better if no one ever told us?
It doesn't matter.
It was my responsibility, and I failed everyone.
He was right to hide us away.
We must live in seclusion for the sake of everyone's safety.
Yes Ren.
Goodbye my friends.
Hey Ren!
Hold up.
You guys are not going anywhere.
Huh?
Well a power like that can also do a lot of good
when it's used against the forces of evil.
He's right.
You can be a great partner in the fight against Barodius.
You just need to learn to control
your newfound power Ren.
Yeah dude.
And I'll help you just like these guys
helped me, back when I was learning
to become a Battle Brawler.
We'll all help you.
That's what real friends are for Ren.
But it's more than I deserve from you guys.
Don't be silly.
That stuff is all water under the bridge.
[laugh]
How weird.
I was kind of getting used to your other look.
[all laugh]
Ren, look.
Huh?
Dan and the others may have welcomed Ren back to the team,
but I can't bring myself to do it.
I won't forgive him for his part in what the Gundalians
have put my people through.
And to be honest, I'm not even sure he can be trusted anyway.
So I'm going to challenge him to a battle.
We'll see if he really is a changed person
or if he's just continuing his charade.
Tune in yourself to see what I find
out in the heat of the battle.
Bakugan brawl!
Come on Aranaut!
It's time to get even for everything Ren and
the Gundalians inflicted on us!
[theme music]